In the last lecture we have been talking about Alice D.M. architecture how to compile and how to fit
the model.
Now it's time to test whether the algorithm is working fine or not.
So first of all we have taken Kattan aid the training data set with that task data set.
Why.
Because if we want to make some predictions in the past dataset of course for example the prediction
as far as the first sample is concerned it relies heavily on the previous 40 samples and the previous
40 samples are located within the training data set.
OK because as you may recall we use 40 features.
So for the stock prices in the past in order to spread the stock price tomorrow.
OK.
So that's why we have to concatenate the training data set and test data set as far as the adjusted
closing prices are concerned.
And if we had the axes to be zero it's going to be a vertical concatenation.
So if the axis is zero it is vertical.
If the access is equal to 1 it's going to be horizontal concatenation.
So if we take a look at these data set total as you can see we have training data set and the data we
have the test data set.
So as you can see we have concatenated the training data set and test data set in a vertical manner.
So that's why we use axes 0 for vertical concatenation.
OK then we have to calculate the input features for that past data set and with the help of this line
of code we slagged the important inputs.
So from the total data set we are going to calculate the lengths of the dataset minus the lengths of
the price data set so that test dataset minus 40 because we need the items in the training data set
in order to protect the values from the task data set.
OK then we have to reshape these values data because then our own network is trained on the scale the
values we have to use minimax normalization on the input as well.
So this minimax scaler is already fit there.
So instead of feet transform we can use this transform directly.
So this is how we get that transformed input.
And again we have to create a one dimensional array for the test features and we have to use these for
a loop in order to create a data set like this with all of the relevant features.
OK in this case we have three features but in the implementations we have 40 features.
So for these stock prices in the past.
Okay so thats why we use 40 and minus 40 up to our eye.
As far as the roads are concerned and all the values from the first column we are dealing with a single
adjusted closing price so thats why the zero index column is going to be adjusted.
Closing prices then we can create a non-pilot array out of the X test values and then we have to reshape
these items.
This is exactly what we have discussed here because in order to make some predictions we are recurrent
now and that we have to end up with these die imagines the first dimension imagine is the number of
samples.
Then we have the number of features that we have the number of target variables because we are after
the adjusted closing price.
It is a single value.
So thats why we have a warm up.
OK so this is why we have to use reshape.
With something like this.
Finally we kind of make predictions with the help of the model predicate on the past the data set.
These are going to be the predictions but we make predictions on the scale the data set.
So we just have to use these inverse transformations in order to end up with the predicted stock prices.
Okay.
So we don't want to bother with the values within the range 0 and 1.
We would like to make predictions something like this that the stock price is two thousand two hundred
nineteen dollars for example and so on.
So this is why we need this inverse transformation and then we just have to Plaut the actual S&P 500
prices and the stock price is predicted by the LSD model.
So we have the title we have the labels time and prices accordingly and we just have to call the show
function in order to show order give them plot.
So in the next lecture we are going to talk about the results.
Thanks for watching.